Lots More Concepts (#696)
dolthub/docs: content/concepts/dolt/sql/views.md

---
title: Views
---

# Views

## What is a View?

> Views look like tables when used in a select statement but the data in views is generated using SQL stored in the view definition. The data is actually stored in the tables the views reference not the view itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Views look and act like tables, but the data in views is materialized on the fly using a view definition query that itself references concrete tables. The data is actually stored in the tables the views reference not the view itself.
```

Reviewer: not sure mine is strictly better, the first version is hard to read though

## How to use Views

Views allow you to derive tables using SQL instead of storing a copy of all the data you might want to derive. As a simple example, in a table of employee's salaries, you may store yearly salary but when using the table to calculate monthly salary, you use a view that divides the yearly salary by 12.

## Difference between MySQL Views and Dolt Views

> There is no difference between MySQL and Dolt views. They are functionally equivalent.

Reviewer: i think mysql can materialize views?

## Interaction with Dolt Version Control

Dolt view definitions are versioned in the `dolt_schemas` system table. 

> If you would like to use a current view with an different version of the data, `as of` syntax works with views.

Reviewer: the current working set's view? this one wasn't completely obvious to me, so if the view is different in the other root we still use this root's view definition?
